22008 draft (#2398)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2022-08-02-separate-stack-trace-22008.adoc

---
layout: post

> title: "Separate stack trace from messages in logged exceptions, time-based log rollover and more exciting new features in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8"
> # Do NOT change the categories section
> categories: blog
> author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/ryan-storey
> author_github: https://github.com/ryan-storey
> seo-title: Separate stack trace from messages in logged exceptions, time-based log rollover and more exciting new features in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 - OpenLiberty.io
> seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 offers several exciting new features, such as separating stack trace from messages in logged exceptions by offering new fields for Open Liberty JSON logging and for the Logstash Collector feature. This enables easier-to-read visualizations in downstream log analysis tools. This release also includes an important security vulnerability (CVE) fix, as well as many notable bug fixes.
> blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 offers several exciting new features, such as separating stack trace from messages in logged exceptions by offering new fields for Open Liberty JSON logging and for the Logstash Collector feature. This enables easier-to-read visualizations in downstream log analysis tools. This release also includes an important security vulnerability (CVE) fix, as well as many notable bug fixes.
> open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
> ---
> = Separate stack trace from messages in logged exceptions, time-based log rollover and more exciting new features in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Separate stack trace from messages in logged exceptions and time-based log rollover in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8"
# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/ryan-storey
author_github: https://github.com/ryan-storey
seo-title: Separate stack trace from messages in logged exceptions and time-based log rollover in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 - OpenLiberty.io
seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 provides a new capability for separating stack trace from messages in logged exceptions by offering new fields for Open Liberty JSON logging and for the Logstash Collector feature. This enables easier-to-read visualizations in downstream log analysis tools. Also new in this release is time-based log rollover, which enables you to specify a time of day for log files to roll over. This release also includes an important security vulnerability (CVE) fix, as well as many notable bug fixes.
blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 provides a new capability for separating stack trace from messages in logged exceptions by offering new fields for Open Liberty JSON logging and for the Logstash Collector feature. This enables easier-to-read visualizations in downstream log analysis tools. Also new in this release is time-based log rollover, which enables you to specify a time of day for log files to roll over. This release also includes an important security vulnerability (CVE) fix, as well as many notable bug fixes.
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
---
= Separate stack trace from messages in logged exceptions and time-based log rollover in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8
```

Ryan Storey <https://github.com/ryan-storey>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 offers several exciting new features, such as separating stack trace from messages in logged exceptions by offering new fields for Open Liberty JSON logging and for the Logstash Collector feature. This enables easier-to-read visualizations in downstream log analysis tools. This release also includes an important security vulnerability (CVE) fix, as well as many notable bug fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 provides a new capability for separating stack trace from messages in logged exceptions by offering new fields for Open Liberty JSON logging and for the Logstash Collector feature. This enables easier-to-read visualizations in downstream log analysis tools. Also new in this release is time-based log rollover, which enables you to specify a time of day for log files to roll over. This release also includes an important security vulnerability (CVE) fix, as well as many notable bug fixes.
```

[source, json]
----
{
    "type": "liberty_message",
    ...
    "message": “exception message",
    "ibm_exceptionName":"java.lang.IllegalArgumentException",
    "ibm_stackTrace":"java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: ouch\r\n\tat my.package.MyResource.get(MyResource.java:20)\r\n...",
    ...
}
----

[#log_rollover]
== Time-based log rollover for Liberty

Liberty provides a few different log files; a `message.log` is created by default, and a `trace.log` and `http_access.log` can be enabled for tracing and `NCSA` access logs respectively. Previously, these log files could be rolled over only by either server restart or by limiting the maximum log file size with the `maxFileSize` logging attribute. Instead of file size-based log rollover, users may want to roll over their files at periodic times to facilitate their existing log cleaning or archival processes. 

Now, you can enable time-based periodic rollover of those log files at their own specified time of day by using two new optional logging configuration attributes: `rolloverInterval` and `rolloverStartTime`. Upon roll over, the file names are appended with a timestamp that corresponds to the time that the log was rolled over.

> * `rolloverInterval` is the desired time interval between log rollovers. Set the attribute with a positive integer followed by a unit of time, which can be days (d), hours (h), or minutes (m). For example, specify 5 hours as `5h``. You can include multiple values in a single entry. For example, `1d5h`` is equivalent to 1 day and 5 hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `rolloverInterval` is the desired time interval between log rollovers. Set the attribute with a positive integer followed by a unit of time, which can be days (d), hours (h), or minutes (m). For example, specify 5 hours as `5h`. You can include multiple values in a single entry. For example, `1d5h` is equivalent to 1 day and 5 hours.
```

> * `rolloverStartTime` is the time of day when logs first roll over and the first rollover interval duration begins. Valid values for this attribute follow a 24-hour ISO-8601 time format of HH:MM, where 00:00 represents midnight. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `rolloverStartTime` is the time of day when logs first roll over and the first rollover interval duration begins. Valid values for this attribute follow a 24-hour ISO-8601 time format of HH:MM, where `00:00` represents midnight. 
```

[source, xml]
----
<server>
   ...
    <httpAccessLogging rolloverStartTime="00:00" rolloverInterval="1d" logFormat='%h %u %{t}W "%r" %s %b' />
    ...
</server>
----

Example `server.xml` configuration for access logging, using `<accessLogging/>` under `<httpEndpoint/>`, which handles `http_access.log` rollover:

[source, xml]
----
<server>
   ...
   <httpEndpoint id="defaultHttpEndpoint">
      <accessLogging rolloverStartTime="00:00" rolloverInterval="1d" logFormat='%h %i %u %t "%r" %s %b' />
   </httpEndpoint>
    ...
</server>
----

Example result of logs, rolled over every minute, with a configuration of `rolloverInterval="1m"` and `rolloverStartTime="00:00"`:

image::/img/blog/log_rollover.png[Example logs,width=70%,align="left"]

For more information about this feature, refer to the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/config/httpAccessLogging.html[HTTP Access Logging], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/config/logging.html[Liberty Logging], and link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/access-logging.html[Liberty Access Logging] documentation.

[#jaxws]
== jaxws-2.2 updates to CXF 3.4

> We've updated `jaxws-2.2` to use CXF 3.4, which is a huge update coming all way up from CXF 2.6.2. Anyone using `jaxws-2.2` will automatically get the update with 22.0.0.8, and you shouldn't see any behavioral changes with this update. On our end, it does make it much easier to keep `jaxws-2.2` up-to-date going forward, and you will see a much quicker turn around time on pulling in the latest fixes from CXF and it's related dependencies going forward!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've updated `jaxws-2.2` to use CXF 3.4, which is a major update coming all way up from CXF 2.6.2. Anyone using `jaxws-2.2` will automatically get the update with 22.0.0.8, but don't worry, Liberty's link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/zero-migration-architecture.html[zero migration] means we've taken great care to prevent any behavior changes. 
The main reason for us to make this change is to make `jaxws-2.2` easier to maintain and keep up-to-date going forward.  We expect this to result in quicker turn around time on pulling in the latest fixes from CXF and it's related dependencies going forward and a slightly smaller runtime footprint as well!
```

[#CVEs]
== Security vulnerability (CVE) fixes in this release
[cols="5*"]
|===
|CVE |CVSS Score |Vulnerability Assessment |Versions Affected |Notes

|link:https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-22476[CVE-2022-22476]
|5
|Identity spoofing
|17.0.0.3 - 22.0.0.7
|Affects the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/appSecurity-1.0.html[App Security 1.0], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/appSecurity-2.0.html[App Security 2.0], link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/appSecurity-3.0.html[App Security 3.0] and link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/appSecurity-4.0.html[App Security 4.0] features
|===

For a list of past security vulnerability fixes, reference the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/security-vulnerabilities.html[Security vulnerability (CVE) list].

[#bugs]
== Notable bugs fixed in this release

We’ve spent some time fixing bugs. The following sections describe just some of the issues resolved in this release. If you’re interested, here’s the  link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A22008+label%3A%22release+bug%22[full list of bugs fixed in 22.0.0.8].

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/21526[UI generated by openapi-3.1 feature doesn't show the link specific endpoints]
> +
> An issue arose when you clicked an endpoint in the UI that is generated by the `openapi-3.1 feature`, the clicked endpoint is expanded however the URL of the browser is not changed. As the result, you could not pass a link to a specific endpoint to others for reference. The URL of the browser is expected to change to show the link to the clicked endpoint.
> +
> This was not a problem and used to work in the UI that is generated by the `apiDiscovery-1.0` feature and also works in the `petstore` demo UI that can be found link:https://petstore.swagger.io/#/pet/addPet[here].
> +
> The links below shows the issue at hand:
> + 
> link:https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9754967/175326096-20dc320b-a6f2-4c81-a745-c71f9f7fe4b3.png[UI generated by openapi-3.1 does not show the correct URL]
> +
> link:https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9754967/175325800-51ff7066-135d-497a-91aa-f1e7a7469716.png[UI generated by apiDiscovery-1.0 shows the correct URL]
> + 
> link:https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9754967/175325883-6bddc8bc-dc7a-4ebb-98ad-42e57dc4f36e.png[UI in petstore shows the correct URL]
> +
> Diagnostic information:
> +
> OpenLiberty Version: `22.0.0.4`
> Affected feature(s): `openapi-3.1`, `mpOpenApi` (all verssions)
> Java Version:
> +
> [source, java]
> ----
> sh-4.4$ java -version
> Picked up JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS: -XX:+IgnoreUnrecognizedVMOptions -XX:+UseContainerSupport -XX:+IdleTuningCompactOnIdle -XX:+IdleTuningGcOnIdle
> openjdk version "11.0.15" 2022-04-19
> OpenJDK Runtime Environment Temurin-11.0.15+10 (build 11.0.15+10)
> OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM Temurin-11.0.15+10 (build 11.0.15+10, mixed mode)
> ----
> +
> `server.xml` cofiguration
> +
> [source,xml]
> ----
> <featureManager>
>     <feature>jaxrs-2.0</feature>
>     <feature>ssl-1.0</feature>
>     <feature>openapi-3.1</feature>
>     <feature>concurrent-1.0</feature>
>     <feature>monitor-1.0</feature>
>     <feature>localConnector-1.0</feature>
> </featureManager>
> ----
> + 
> This issue has since been reviewed and subsequently the affected features list have been updated once the UI is shared with the `mpOpenApi` features. This did previously work for openapi-3.1 but had been broken by link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/pull/19535[#19535] in 22.0.0.2. This issue has now been resolved. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/21526[UI generated by openapi-3.1 feature doesn't show the link specific endpoints]
+
An issue arose when you clicked an endpoint in the UI that is generated by the `openapi-3.1 feature`, the clicked endpoint is expanded however the URL of the browser is not changed. As the result, you could not pass a link to a specific endpoint to others for reference. The URL of the browser is expected to change to show the link to the clicked endpoint.
+
This issue has since been reviewed and subsequently the affected features list have been updated once the UI is shared with the `mpOpenApi` features. This did previously work for openapi-3.1 but had been broken by link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/pull/19535[#19535] in 22.0.0.2. This issue has now been resolved. 
```

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/21214[Server start fails when directory has spaces]
> + 
> When the server working directory is specified using environment variable SERVER_WORKING_DIR, and when a space is present in the name of the server working directory, an attempt to start the server using the Windows server script will hang, and the server will not start. 
> +
> Steps to Reproduce are as follows:
> +
> On Windows, set the server working directory using environment variable SERVER_WORKING_DIR with a directory name which contains a space. Then attempt to start the server using the server script `(server.bat)`.
> +
> Note that this occurs on Windows only, Diagnostic information can be found below:
> +
> OpenLiberty Versions: 21.0.0.6 and higher.
> Affected feature(s): All
> Java Version: All
> WINDOWS ONLY
> +
> Additional Context for this issue can be found below:
> +
> A work-around is available as the problem occurs because of an error in the server script "WLP_HOME/bin/server.bat".
> +
> Quotes are missing near line 721:
> +
> The line:
> `if x%SERVER_WORKING_DIR::=%==x%SERVER_WORKING_DIR% (`
> +
> Should instead be:
> `if "%SERVER_WORKING_DIR::=%"=="%SERVER_WORKING_DIR%" (`
> +
> A step of removing double quotes from SERVER_WORKING_DIR is missing near line 103.
> +
> The line:
> `if defined WLP_OUTPUT_DIR set WLP_OUTPUT_DIR=!WLP_OUTPUT_DIR:"=!`
> +
> Should be followed by the (completely new) line:
> +
> `if defined SERVER_WORKING_DIR set SERVER_WORKING_DIR=!SERVER_WORKING_DIR:"=!`
> +
> These two changes (updating one line; adding one completely new line) may be used to work-around the problem.
> +
> The problem was introduced by the Pull Request:
> +
> "JVM Working Directory Feature"
> #18931
> 73b51bb
> +
> Integrated into "gm-22.0.0.6-beta" on 22-Nov-2021.
> +
> The Pull Request is for the Issue:
> +
> "Add support for setting JVM working dir"
> #15128
> +
> This is not a regression: The problem occurs relative to environment variable SERVER_WORKING_DIR, which was added by the issue 15128.
> +
> This issue was identified as a work bug and worked on by the Open Liberty Kernal Team which has since been resolved. You can find out more information about this fix of adding quotes to server working directory test link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/pull/21234[here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/21214[Server start fails when directory has spaces]
+ 
On Windows operating system, when the server working directory is specified using environment variable SERVER_WORKING_DIR, and when a space is present in the name of the server working directory, an attempt to start the server using the server script will hang and the server will not start. 
+
This issue was due to missing quotes in the server script and has since been resolved. You can find out more information about this fix of adding quotes to server working directory test link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/pull/21234[here].
```

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/21601[Port MYFACES-4432 to JSF 2.3 and Faces 3.0 (Resolve request object in facelets)]
> +
> The issue occured when using the `"@FacesConfig"` annotation in a JSF 2.3 or Faces 3.0 application, the `#{request}` object fails to resolve. An empty string is returned instead. 
> +
> In order to reporduce the steps; Use @FacesConfig in the 2.3 or 3.0 application, and reference request in a facelet.
> +
> The object should resolve, so that any of it's methods can be called. See table 5-11 of the JSF 2.3 spec for all objects which should be resolved.
> + 
> Diagnostic information can be found below: 
> +
> OpenLiberty Version: All versions
> Affected feature(s) jsf-2.3, faces-3.0
> Java Version: N/A
> + 
> Additonal context can be found below:
> +
> Note: The implicit request and session objects are resolved via JSF's `ImplicitObjectResolver` not CDI. This is so that HttpServletRequest and HttpSession are not made injectable by JSF (i.e.. JSF should not use the Producer annotation in the implementation for HttpServletRequest and HttpSession). 
> +
> CDI should directly manage the injectablility of these objects instead. See the the discussion link:https://github.com/jakartaee/faces/issues/1564[here on GitHub] and link:https://issues.apache.org/jira/projects/MYFACES/issues/MYFACES-4432[here on Apache] for reference.
> +
> This issue has now been closed as completed in link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/pull/21599[#21599]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/21601[Port MYFACES-4432 to JSF 2.3 and Faces 3.0 (Resolve request object in facelets)]
+
The issue occurred when using the `"@FacesConfig"` annotation in a JSF 2.3 or Faces 3.0 application, the `#{request}` object fails to resolve. An empty string is returned instead. 
+
This issue has now been closed as completed in link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/pull/21599[#21599]
```

----
+
When the config update finishes, they are resubmitted,
+
[source, role="no_copy"]
----
[6/30/22 11:58:58:282 PDT] 00000055 id=b07b2010 ibm.ws.concurrent.persistent.internal.PersistentExecutorImpl > configUpdateCompleted Entry  
                                                                                                               ApplicationsInstallCalled
[6/30/22 11:58:58:283 PDT] 00000055 id=b07b2010 ibm.ws.concurrent.persistent.internal.PersistentExecutorImpl < configUpdateCompleted Exit  
                                                                                                               1
[6/30/22 11:58:58:283 PDT] 00000055 id=aafae42d istent.internal.PersistentExecutorImpl$1MyCompletionListener < successfulCompletion Exit 

[6/30/22 11:58:58:283 PDT] 00000045 id=3f305e12 com.ibm.ws.concurrent.persistent.internal.InvokerTask        > run[1] Entry  
                                                                                                               com.ibm.ws.concurrent.persistent.internal.PersistentExecutorImpl@b07b2010
----
+
Unfortunately, the application still isn't started at this point, and the timers are once again deferred,
+

> [source, role="no_copy"]
> ----
> [6/30/22 11:59:01:982 PDT] 00000045 id=3f305e12 com.ibm.ws.concurrent.persistent.internal.InvokerTask        3 classloader identifier 
>                                                                                                                WebModule:db2zai#DB2ZAI.1.5.0.0.jar
> [6/30/22 11:59:01:982 PDT] 00000045 id=3f305e12 com.ibm.ws.concurrent.persistent.internal.InvokerTask        3 classloader 
>                                                                                                                com.ibm.ws.classloading.internal.ThreadContextClassLoader@3a8b44e8
> 
> [6/30/22 11:59:01:982 PDT] 00000045 id=bccdf591 com.ibm.ws.concurrent.persistent.internal.ApplicationTracker > isStarted Entry  
>                                                                                                                db2zai
> [6/30/22 11:59:01:983 PDT] 00000045 id=bccdf591 com.ibm.ws.concurrent.persistent.internal.ApplicationTracker < isStarted Exit  
>                                                                                                                false
> 
> [6/30/22 11:59:01:983 PDT] 00000045 id=3f305e12 com.ibm.ws.concurrent.persistent.internal.InvokerTask        < run[1] Exit  
>                                                                                                                unavailable - deferred
> ----
> +
> Eventually the application starts, and the timers should be reattempted after this, but they aren't,
> +
> [source, role="no_copy"]
> ----
> [6/30/22 11:59:03:265 PDT] 00000061 id=00000000 com.ibm.ws.app.manager.AppMessageHelper                      A CWWKZ0001I: Application db2zai started in 48.273 seconds.
> 
> [6/30/22 11:59:03:267 PDT] 0000004d id=bccdf591 com.ibm.ws.concurrent.persistent.internal.ApplicationTracker > addStartedApplication Entry  
>                                                                                                                {com.ibm.wsspi.application.Application}={location=/u/home/DB2ZAI/db2zaiv1r3.4050/DB2Z-ML-Akira/servers/akira/apps/DB2ZAI.1.5.0.0.jar, service.id=520, service.bundleid=63, service.scope=singleton, application.state=STARTED, config.overrides=true, name=db2zai, config.id=com.ibm.ws.app.manager[db2zai], context-root=/db2zai, config.source=file, service.factoryPid=com.ibm.ws.app.manager, autoStart=true, id=db2zai, config.displayId=application[db2zai], service.pid=com.ibm.ws.app.manager_66, classloader=com.ibm.ws.classloading.classloader_117, type=war}
> [6/30/22 11:59:03:267 PDT] 0000004d id=bccdf591 com.ibm.ws.concurrent.persistent.internal.ApplicationTracker < addStartedApplication Exit 
> ----
> +
> An assumption was that ApplicationTracker.addStartedApplication doesn't see any timers to run because ApplicationTracker.deferTask wasn't ever invoked for the tasks. There is no evidence in the trace of deferTask being invoked.
> +
> There is only one place in the code where the `deferTask` can be invoked:
> + 
> [source, java]
> ----
>                     } else if (ownerForDeferredTask != null)
>                         appTracker.deferTask(this, ownerForDeferredTask, persistentExecutor);
> ----
> +
> It requires a non-null `ownerForDeferredTask`.
> +
> There are two places (both in the same method) where `ownerForDeferredTask` is assigned,
> +
> [source, java]
> ----
>                     } else if (ownerForDeferredTask != null)
>                         appTracker.deferTask(this, ownerForDeferredTask, persistentExecutor);
> ----
> +
> [source, java]
> ----
>             if (loader == null || !appTracker.isStarted(owner)) {
>                 ownerForDeferredTask = owner;
>                 if (trace && tc.isEntryEnabled())
>                     Tr.exit(this, tc, "run[" + taskId + ']', "unavailable - deferred");
>                 return; // Ignore, we are deferring the task because the application or module is unavailable
>             }
> ----
> +
> As presented in the code, the return statment from both of those if blocks. It prevents code flow from continuing, meaning that appTracker.deferTask is unreachable.
> +
> This issue has now had a fix to run deferred tasks after the app starts in link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/pull/21616[#21616] and has subsequently now been closed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/21615[EJB persistent timers that were deferred during app start do not run when app finishes starting]
+
EJB Persistent Timers that get deferred due to the application not being started yet do not run after the application finishes starting.
+
Steps to reproduce are to have a large, slowly-starting application with a number of persistent EJB timers around from a previous run. Start the server and if timing is right, the timers will never start running.
+
The expected behavior is for EJB persistent timers that were deferred due to an unavailable application, should run after the application becomes available again.
+
This issue has been resolved by running deferred tasks after the app starts in link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/pull/21616[#21616].
```

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/21664[featureUpdate downloads fail in Windows, due to #20945]
> +
> The issue is that you are unable to connect to Maven repo on Windows due to changes made in #20945. There is a need to append backsplash instead of File.separator for urls.
> +
> The steps to reproduce this follows:
> +
> [source, role="no_copy"]
> ----
> featureUtility.exe installFeature or featureUtility.exe installServerFeature 
> ..
> The remote repository "https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/\" is missing the following artifacts: [json-1.0-22.0.0.7.pom, json-1.0-22.0.0.7.esa]
> [7/27/22, 11:31:52:318 PDT] Downloading required features ...
> [7/27/22, 11:31:52:334 PDT] Starting installation ...
> [7/27/22, 11:31:52:365 PDT] Successfully completed cleaning up temporary files.
> <---------------------> Infinity%
> java.lang.NullPointerException
> at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.FeatureUtility.installFeatures(FeatureUtility.java:483)
> at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.cli.InstallFeatureAction.install(InstallFeatureAction.java:241)
> at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.cli.InstallFeatureAction.execute(InstallFeatureAction.java:257)
> at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.cli.InstallFeatureAction.handleTask(InstallFeatureAction.java:78)
> at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.cli.FeatureAction.handleTask(FeatureAction.java:100)
> at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.FeatureUtilityExecutor.main(FeatureUtilityExecutor.java:58)
> at java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke0(Native Method)
> at java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(NativeMethodAccessorImpl.java:62)
> at java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:43)
> at java.base/java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:566)
> at com.ibm.ws.kernel.boot.cmdline.UtilityMain.internal_main(UtilityMain.java:173)
> at com.ibm.ws.kernel.boot.cmdline.UtilityMain.main(UtilityMain.java:53)
> at com.ibm.ws.kernel.boot.cmdline.Main.main(Main.java:52)
> ----
> +
> The expected behaviour is for the features to be installed successfully. 
> +
> Diagnostic Information:
> +
> OpenLiberty Version: [22.0.0.7]
> +
> This issue has since been reviewed and link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/pull/21667[#21667] reverts it back to a backsplash. This has now been closed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/21664[featureUpdate downloads fail in Windows, due to #20945]
+
The issue is caused by the inability to connect to Maven repo on Windows due to changes made in #20945. There is a need to append a forward slash (`/`) instead of `File.separator` for urls.
+
Running `featureUtility.exe installFeature` or`featureUtility.exe installServerFeature` causes the following:
+
[source, role="no_copy"]
----
The remote repository "https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/\" is missing the following artifacts: [json-1.0-22.0.0.7.pom, json-1.0-22.0.0.7.esa]
[7/27/22, 11:31:52:318 PDT] Downloading required features ...
[7/27/22, 11:31:52:334 PDT] Starting installation ...
[7/27/22, 11:31:52:365 PDT] Successfully completed cleaning up temporary files.
<---------------------> Infinity%
java.lang.NullPointerException
at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.FeatureUtility.installFeatures(FeatureUtility.java:483)
at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.cli.InstallFeatureAction.install(InstallFeatureAction.java:241)
at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.cli.InstallFeatureAction.execute(InstallFeatureAction.java:257)
at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.cli.InstallFeatureAction.handleTask(InstallFeatureAction.java:78)
at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.cli.FeatureAction.handleTask(FeatureAction.java:100)
at com.ibm.ws.install.featureUtility.FeatureUtilityExecutor.main(FeatureUtilityExecutor.java:58)
at java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke0(Native Method)
at java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(NativeMethodAccessorImpl.java:62)
at java.base/jdk.internal.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:43)
at java.base/java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:566)
at com.ibm.ws.kernel.boot.cmdline.UtilityMain.internal_main(UtilityMain.java:173)
at com.ibm.ws.kernel.boot.cmdline.UtilityMain.main(UtilityMain.java:53)
at com.ibm.ws.kernel.boot.cmdline.Main.main(Main.java:52)
----
+
This issue has since been resolved by link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/pull/21667[#21667] which reverts the `File.separator` to a forward slash and the features now install successfully.
```
